Web-app/Angular_notes.md, before:

# Introduction
These are my notes for following YouTube - Software Engineering Skills: Creating an Angular Portfolio.

Note that the versions I am using are:
- Angular CLI: 18.1.3
- Node: 20.16.0
- Boostrap: ^5.2.3
---
## Contents
1. [Setting up environment](#settingupenv)
2. [Angular installed files](#explaininstalledfiles)
3. [Bootstrap](#bootstrap)
4. [Angular components](#angularcomponents)
5. [Angular variable components](#angularvarcomponents)
6. [Setting up service](#settingupservice)
7. [Coding Tips](#codingtips)
8. [Troubleshoot](#troubleshoot)
---
<a id="settingupenv"></a>
## Setting up environment

| Action   | Command |
| -------- | ------- |
| 1. To check version of Angular             | `ng version`   |
| 2. To create new project w/o modules       | Go to folder. > `ng new`    |
| 3. To create new project w _app.module.ts_ | `ng new my-app --no-standalone --routing --ssr=false`   |
| 4. To build project                        | `ng serve`   |

- For single-page application: _Do you want to enable Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Static Site Generation (SSG/Prerendering)?_ No.

<a id="explaininstalledfiles"></a>
## Angular installed files

| File name   | Purpose |
| ----------- | ------- |
| _src/index.html_             | Contains whole website.  |
| _src/app/app.component.html_ | Contains CSS and HTML code that are displayed on website. |
| Angular components - _src/app/app/app.component.html, app.component.css, app.component.ts_ | HTML template, associated style sheet, adds funtionality to component. |
| _src/app/app.module.ts_  | Modules imported for added functionality.|
| _angular.json_ | Tells project where to find files and to set configurations.|

- `<app-root></app-root>`: Entry point for Angular app. Points to _app.component.ts_: _selector_: _app-root_
- _styles.css_: Defined globally
- _selector_: Use to identify different components.

<a id="bootstrap"></a>
## Bootstrap
- An open-source CSS framework that contains CSS and JS classes to make website responsive.
- To install bootstrap: `ng add ngx-bootstrap`

<a id="angularcomponents"></a>
## Angular Components

| Action   | Command |
| -------- | ------- |
| To create new component | `ng g c header --skip-tests` or `ng generate component` |
| To add components to main website | Go to _app.component.html_. > `<componentName></componentName>` |
| To link to components/ add routing to website | Go to _app.component.html_. > `router-outlet></router-outlet>` |
| To configure routing to different components | Go to _app-routing.module.ts_. > Import component and add to _Routes_ list.
| To check if component is working | Go to `/<componentName` in browser. |

- When creating new component, by default, a test file will be generated as well. Skip this if it is a static file.

<a id="angularvarcomponents"></a>
## Angular variable Components
The same component template can be used repeatedly, as in the case of the _project-card_. 

### Method 1
1. Add `<app-project-card></app-project-card>` to _portfolio.component.html_.
2. Go to _project-card-component.html_ to edit HTML.
3. To supply different data to the component, use parent-child communication. In this case, parent = _portfolio.component.html_ and child = _app-project-card_ component. Go to _project-card-components.ts_ and use _@Input decorator_. Go to _project-card-component.html_ and use _{{}}_ for variable data with single quotes.

### Method 2: Use Typescript class modal to hold data.
1. Go to folder _app_, create folder __modals_ and file _project.ts_.
2. Go to file _project.ts_, add interface and accompanying properties (Strings, arrays etc.) for the variable data.
3. Go to _project-card.components.ts_, add the interface.
4. Go to _project-card.component.html_, replace hard-coded values with variable data names.
- For arrays, use _ngFor_. Remember to use _{{}}_.
5. Go to _portfolio.component.ts_ and add a project with its details.
6. Go to _porfolio.component.html_ and add this project. Project cards now display the data supplied by portfolio component.
7. For arrays, enum can only be defined by primitive data types like strings. Tags come with colours, hence create a modal for it. Remember to add Tag modal to _project.ts_, _portfolio.component.ts_ and _project-card.component.html_ (Angular data binding: Overwrites default value with data it is bounded to dynamically. ).

<a id="settingupservice"></a>
## Setting up service
Service provides the same set of functionality to any components. It is usually used to fetch data from API endpoints and then, supplied to components.
1. Variable data (projects) only exist in porfolio component and cannot be accessed by other components. Hence, the need to set up a service.
2. To create a service, go to folder _services_, open up a terminal and `ng g s projects --skip-tests`.
- Different from a component; no associated HTML and CSS files. Class is an injectable.
3. Go to _projects.service.ts_ to create database of projects and the accompanying methods.
4. To use service, go to component, add in to constructor and implement Oninit interface.
5. Edit the HTML file.

<a id="codingtips"></a>
## Coding tips
1. `{{}}`: To insert data from a variable in component file into HTML.

2. `<webElement>.<class>`: To create an element with the specified class.

<a id="troubleshoot"></a>
## Troubleshoot
1. **Error:** `\npm\ng.ps1 cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system.`
- **Solution:** Go to `C:\Users\{user_name}\AppData\Roaming\npm`. Delete `ng.ps1`

2. **Error:** `This command is not available when running the Angular CLI outside a workspace.`
- **Solution:** Make sure you 'open in integrated terminal'.

3. **Missing:** assets folder has been replaced with public folder in latest Angular version.
- **Solution:** To refer to an image, use `<img src="<imageName>.jpeg">`

Commit message:

Angular: Set up service again and added modal and carousel.

Web-app/Angular_notes.md, after:

# Introduction
These are my notes for following YouTube - Software Engineering Skills: Creating an Angular Portfolio.

Note that the versions I am using are:
- Angular CLI: 18.1.3
- Node: 20.16.0
- Boostrap: ^5.2.3
---
## Contents
1. [Setting up environment](#settingupenv)
2. [Angular installed files](#explaininstalledfiles)
3. [Bootstrap](#bootstrap)
4. [Angular components](#angularcomponents)
5. [Angular variable components](#angularvarcomponents)
6. [Setting up service](#settingupservice)
7. [Adding modal](#addmodal)
8. [Adding carousel](#addcarousel)
9. [Coding Tips](#codingtips)
10. [Troubleshoot](#troubleshoot)
---
<a id="settingupenv"></a>
## Setting up environment

| Action   | Command |
| -------- | ------- |
| 1. To check version of Angular             | `ng version`   |
| 2. To create new project w/o modules       | Go to folder. > `ng new`    |
| 3. To create new project w _app.module.ts_ | `ng new my-app --no-standalone --routing --ssr=false`   |
| 4. To build project                        | `ng serve`   |

- For single-page application: _Do you want to enable Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Static Site Generation (SSG/Prerendering)?_ No.

<a id="explaininstalledfiles"></a>
## Angular installed files

| File name   | Purpose |
| ----------- | ------- |
| _src/index.html_             | Contains whole website.  |
| _src/app/app.component.html_ | Contains CSS and HTML code that are displayed on website. |
| Angular components - _src/app/app/app.component.html, app.component.css, app.component.ts_ | HTML template, associated style sheet, adds funtionality to component. |
| _src/app/app.module.ts_  | Modules imported for added functionality.|
| _angular.json_ | Tells project where to find files and to set configurations.|

- `<app-root></app-root>`: Entry point for Angular app. Points to _app.component.ts_: _selector_: _app-root_
- _styles.css_: Defined globally
- _selector_: Use to identify different components.

<a id="bootstrap"></a>
## Bootstrap
- An open-source CSS framework that contains CSS and JS classes to make website responsive.
- To install bootstrap: `ng add ngx-bootstrap`

<a id="angularcomponents"></a>
## Angular Components

| Action   | Command |
| -------- | ------- |
| To create new component | `ng g c header --skip-tests` or `ng generate component` |
| To add components to main website | Go to _app.component.html_. > `<componentName></componentName>` |
| To link to components/ add routing to website | Go to _app.component.html_. > `router-outlet></router-outlet>` |
| To configure routing to different components | Go to _app-routing.module.ts_. > Import component and add to _Routes_ list.
| To check if component is working | Go to `/<componentName` in browser. |

- When creating new component, by default, a test file will be generated as well. Skip this if it is a static file.

<a id="angularvarcomponents"></a>
## Angular variable Components
The same component template can be used repeatedly, as in the case of the _project-card_. 

### Method 1
1. Add `<app-project-card></app-project-card>` to _portfolio.component.html_.
2. Go to _project-card-component.html_ to edit HTML.
3. To supply different data to the component, use parent-child communication. In this case, parent = _portfolio.component.html_ and child = _app-project-card_ component. Go to _project-card-components.ts_ and use _@Input decorator_. Go to _project-card-component.html_ and use _{{}}_ for variable data with single quotes.

### Method 2: Use Typescript class modal to hold data.
1. Go to folder _app_, create folder __modals_ and file _project.ts_.
2. Go to file _project.ts_, add interface and accompanying properties (Strings, arrays etc.) for the variable data.
3. Go to _project-card.components.ts_, add the interface.
4. Go to _project-card.component.html_, replace hard-coded values with variable data names.
- For arrays, use _ngFor_. Remember to use _{{}}_.
5. Go to _portfolio.component.ts_ and add a project with its details.
6. Go to _porfolio.component.html_ and add this project. Project cards now display the data supplied by portfolio component.
7. For arrays, enum can only be defined by primitive data types like strings. Tags come with colours, hence create a modal for it. Remember to add Tag modal to _project.ts_, _portfolio.component.ts_ and _project-card.component.html_ (Angular data binding: Overwrites default value with data it is bounded to dynamically. ).

<a id="settingupservice"></a>
## Setting up Service
Service provides the same set of functionality to any components. It is usually used to fetch data from API endpoints and then, supplied to components.
1. Variable data (projects) only exist in porfolio component and cannot be accessed by other components. Hence, the need to set up a service.
2. To create a service, go to folder _services_, open up a terminal and `ng g s projects --skip-tests`.
- Different from a component; no associated HTML and CSS files. Class is an injectable.
3. Go to _projects.service.ts_ to create database of projects and the accompanying methods.
4. To use service, go to component, add in to constructor and implement Oninit interface.
5. Edit the HTML file.

<a id="addmodal"></a>
## Adding modal
Modal is a pop-up window that overlays on the side.
1. Go to _app.module.ts_ and add the modal.
2. Go to _project-card.component.ts_ to add the modal.
3. Go to _project-card.component.html_ to add it as a click event.
4. Create a project-modal component to hold the HTML for the modal. `ng g c project-modal --skip-tests`
5. project-modal.component.ts to add BsModalRef, project-card.component.ts to add project modal component.

<a id="addcarousel"></a>
## Adding Carousel
1. Go to _app.module.ts_ and add the carousel.

<a id="codingtips"></a>
## Coding tips
1. `{{}}`: To insert data from a variable in component file into HTML.

2. `<webElement>.<class>`: To create an element with the specified class.

<a id="troubleshoot"></a>
## Troubleshoot

1. **Error:** _\npm\ng.ps1 cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system._
- **Solution:** Go to `C:\Users\{user_name}\AppData\Roaming\npm`. Delete `ng.ps1`

2. **Error:** _This command is not available when running the Angular CLI outside a workspace._
- **Solution:** Make sure you 'open in integrated terminal'.

3. **Missing:** assets folder has been replaced with public folder in latest Angular version.
- **Solution:** To refer to an image, use `<img src="<imageName>.jpeg">`

4. **Error:** _Error: Cannot resolve type entity i4.FocusTrapModule to symbol_
- **Solution:** Go to _tsconfig.json_, change to `"compilerOptions": { ... "moduleResolution": "node", ... }`.

5. `ng cache clean`
